# Response to Blumenstock 
Olivia Hettinger
January 27

Joshua Blumestock muses that, in order to effectively use big data for human development, we must consider the social and cultural contexts of targeted communities. He notes that previous uses of big data have pitfalls because these methods haven't been heavily tested. We can make a map, but that map is no good if we aren't sure it's right. Also, these big data findings tend to leave out people who are harder to collect data on (which tend to be marginalized), and this in turn can tip the balances of aid and services towards the already wealthy. Scales are also tipped because this data allows people to use a black and white way to decide who gets aid/loans, something which disproportionaltely rewards those already wealthier. Finally, there is a lack of regulation surrounding how private companies use data for things other than profit. Blumestock conjectures that in, in order to properly address these things in data science, we need to better test and validate our information. We also need to recognize that there is no one-size-fits-all model, and that all of our data will be more accurate and useful if we collaborate. We can use many different types of data in conjunction (the example given is data on who is most likely to pay loans used agains where the loan may be most effective) to better understand communities. If we consider the human context of our data, we can make a more calculated positive impact. 

On a different note, Good intent is not enough, but it sure is important. The luxury good taxes from the 1900s were meant to put the tax burden on the wealthy, but they ended up putting many lower-middle class manufatures out of jobs. Lawmakers' good intent wasnn't enough. I agrue that good intent is necessary; however, because this creates an incentive to innovate. This aligns with Blumestock's message that we must collaborate to reach better human understandings about our data. With good intent, one will constantly seek to refine their impact in order to make the positive change they desire. As far as transparency, I think that may be a balance. We want people to know how their credit scores are calculated, but more transparency on the part of customers may shut more people out of loans. Therefore, I have to believe that my classmate is right about the difficult balancing act. We have to understand people's lives in order to take chances on them, but we also need data to understand which courses of action are ineffective. 
