# Lloyd Response

  Using spatial data to map human information is a better altnerative to cenusus data for provision of public services. Satellite data can be found much faster than census data and can be constantly updated. So, if you are trying to understand rapid population movement, spatial data is more helpful. Also, there are many issues surrounding census data like counting people who are not citizens or who are moving quickly. Spatial data alleviates all of these. In order to overlay data data on maps, geographers create a base data set for a certain area using four pieces of data in a GIS software platform. They use raster topography data which is aligned with a coast line to ensure correct scale. They then overlay country identification grid (they make it into raster data so it can be matched with grid cells). Now that country id grid cells can be matched to topography data, they also calculate the slope from the topography data and the area from the country id data, placing them in their correct cell. 
  After the base has been established, they overlay other geospatial human datasets in order to create a descriptive map. Some of those data sets like climate related ones are raster sets, and others (like streets) are vector sets. In order to map population, geographers disaggregate data into grid cells so that we can see exactly where the population is. To disaggregate, they use data from specific administrative divisions and propotionally allocate that accross grid cells. This allows the user to see population density and properly provide public services among other things. 
