# Stevens Response

1. Random forest modeling is a "nonparametric predictive model" that produces the weighting scheme used to distribute larger census data across gridcells. The model is "random" because it randomly selects several covariates and then determines the best covariate dataset to use at each node of the tree. It is called a "forest" because it essentially partitions existing pieces of data into smaller pieces to distribute them. The original observations are the start of the trees, and the weighted, partitioned terminals grow from that. The authors used this partition method in order to map population at sizes smaller than the original census data. 

2. Machine learning algorithms are that which are fed raw data and proceed to act on it or identify it based on several parameters. For example, people would previoiusly search images for things and catagorize them, machine learning will do that for you. Machine learning methods are distinguished from classical statistical methods because there are fewer parameters needed. Furthermore, people don't establish standardized weighing, the machine can create specific weighting on the basis of other data. This is much more accurate and specific. 

3. The authors used a number of geospataial covariate data sets representing everything from land cover to weather to nighttime lights. They also included other datasets about phsyical structures such as hospitals — anything that would paint a concrete picture of civilization. These data sets span the entirety of the countries studied, but some raster sets are recorded at lower resolutions than the distributed census gridcells are. This data has to be matched to census gridcells. These big data sets are incredibly important because it allows us to see the entire picture of human movement and building. We need to see all of the pieces of the puzzle together so we can view what is present and detect which are left over from prior populations.

4. It is very important for policy makers to understand population distributions in order to allocate resources in a sensible way. If policy makers can understand exactly wehre population is, they can provide an appropriate amount of services. Furthermore, it is important for us to see all of Earth's populaiton so that we can begin to understand and predict the impacts of climate change and migration. We need to know where people are so we can know where they might go. Policy makers have to plan accordingly. 

5. It is important for the Central African Republic to understand the populaiton distribution in order to quell rebel groups. Uprisings have a firm hold on the Central African Republic and there are several different groups. If CAR can understand what areas are affected by certain groups and what those groups' resources are, they will be better equipped to quell the rebellions. Furthermore, CAR is a very data poor environment where many people live in unmapped or unrecorded villages. Understanding where these villages are and what servives they need will help stop the spread of uprisings. 
