# Wardrop Response

The article introduces bottom-up and top-down methods to more accurately map populations on levels smaller than the total census data. Mapping on the sub-naitonal level enjoys many challenges because not only is census data sometimes only the national level, but rapidly movement between areas creates a problem. Therefore, top-down mapping approaches such as using a function to link ancillary data (like surface temperature and housing structures) to population levels within an area are very useful. Top-down mapping is when larger census data sets are distributed across grid cells using either statistical relationships or other datasets. However, this method's accuracy is reliant on the accuracy of census data. In order to alliviate some of these problems, the article presents bottom-up mapping. This methodology is reliant on counting a very small section of the area one would like to map, then statistically extrapolating from that. Bottom-up mapping sometimes uses covariates like housing structures from satellite data times the average occupancy of a house in that area. An example of this is Nigerian maps of age sex structures based on microsurveys to inform vaccine availability. 

An easy way to think about the differences between these two is that top-down takes data spanning a big region and distributes it across smaller areas, and bottom-up mapping takes a small dataset and uses statistical approaches to increase the span. Because top-down mapping is reliant on census data, bottom-up mapping is the best method for areas where accurate data is unlikely to exist. On the other hand, in areas without a national census estimate, it can be difficult to judge the accuracy of bottom-up mapping. So, both methods have areas of weakness when it comes to accuracy. However, both methods use several different data sets in order to help complete the picture. These two methods provide a more current estimate of regional populations because the data can be collected faster and more accurately than previous methods. 
